HL7 - Kim Edits (#1323)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: hl7/4.2/modules/ROOT/edits/hl7-connector-examples.adoc

> = HL7 EDI - Examples - Mule 4

Reviewer: BREAK to commit

Reviewer: RESUME with commit #3

> Use these examples to see how to customize a schema, configure the Message Header (MSH) application and facility identification for you and your trading partner, view a test flow with an HTTP Listener that initiates a flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following examples to see how to customize a schema, configure the Message Header (MSH) application and facility identification for you and your trading partner, and view a test flow with an HTTP Listener that initiates a flow.
```

=== Simplify a Schema Using Example Messages

The HL7 standard definitions are very complex, with segments often

> having twenty or more components and many of the components composites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
having twenty or more components of which many
```

> which themselves are broken down into many subcomponents. This can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
themselves are broken down into subcomponents. This component nesting can
```

make mapping HL7 difficult, since the DataSense view of the message
has to contain all these subcomponents.

In practice, most users of HL7 populate only a small fraction of the

> total HL7 standard definitions. To take advantage of this, the HL7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
total HL7 standard definitions. To take advantage of this, HL7
```

EDI Connector provides a console-based Java tool you can use to

> simplify your schema definitions by eliminating components which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simplify your schema definitions by eliminating components that
```

are not normally used in your messages.

The schema simplification tool is in the
`hl7-simplify-4.0.0.jar` file, which is found in the standard
MuleSoft enterprise Maven repositories (under group ID `com.mulesoft.connectors`).

> It accepts a message structure schema and one or more example messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool accepts a message structure schema and one or more example messages
```

(as separate files) as input, and generates an output schema reduced

> down to only those segments and components present in one or more of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to only those segments and components present in one or more of
```

the sample messages.

To use this tool, download the `JAR` and open a command line console, then type:

[source,console]
----
java -jar hl7-simplify-4.0.0.jar {input-schema} {output-schema} {sample1} {sample2} ...
----

> Where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The placeholders in this syntax represent the following values:
```

* `input-schema` is the message structure schema used to read the messages,

> which can be a file or a classpath reference to a supplied schema

Reviewer: To what does "which" refer: the schema used to read the messages, or the messages themselves? Clarify.

Reviewer: For scanability, consider breaking as follows:

`blah syntax`
+
The this-thing (no period)

such as the `/hl7/v2_5_1/ADT_A05.esl` path.
* `output-schema` is the file path for the simplified schema output.
* `sample1...n` are the file paths to the sample messages.

> Make sure the sample message files are saved with carriage return (CR)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that each sample message file is saved with a carriage return (CR)
```

> line endings, since this is the required HL7 segment delimiter. Text editors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
line ending, which is the required HL7 segment delimiter. Text editors
```

> generally use the default line ending for your operating system, and this may not be correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generally use the default line ending for your operating system, and this might not be correct.
```

  - { idRef: 'PL', name: 'Location Resource ID', usage: O, count: '>1' }
  - { idRef: 'CE', name: 'Location Type-AIL', usage: O }
  - { idRef: 'varies', name: 'Location Group', usage: U, count: '>1' }
  - { idRef: 'TS', name: 'Start Date/Time', usage: O }
- id: 'AIP'
  name: 'Appointment Information - Personnel Resource'
  varTag: 'AIP'
  values:
  - { idRef: 'SI', name: 'Set ID - AIP', usage: O }
  - { idRef: 'varies', name: 'Segment Action Code', usage: U, count: '>1' }
  - { idRef: 'XCN_2', name: 'Personnel Resource ID', usage: O, count: '>1' }
  - { idRef: 'CE_1', name: 'Resource Type', usage: O }
  - { idRef: 'varies', name: 'Resource Group', usage: U, count: '>1' }
  - { idRef: 'TS', name: 'Start Date/Time', usage: O }
...
composites:
- id: 'CE'
  name: 'Coded Element'
  values:
  - { idRef: 'ST', name: 'Identifier', usage: O }
  - { idRef: 'ST', name: 'Text', usage: O }
- id: 'CE_1'
  name: 'Coded Element'
  values:
  - { idRef: 'ST', name: 'Identifier', usage: O }
- id: 'CE_2'
  name: 'Coded Element'
  values:
  - { idRef: 'ST', name: 'Identifier', usage: O }
  - { idRef: 'ST', name: 'Text', usage: O }
  - { idRef: 'ID', name: 'Name of Coding System', usage: O }
...
----

> Unused components of a segment cannot be dropped from the segment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because unused components of a segment cannot be dropped from the segment
```

> definition (unless they're at the end of the segment), so the simplification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
definition unless they're at the end of the segment, the simplification
```

> tool just substitutes a `varies` data type for the component and marks it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tool substitutes a `varies` data type for the component and marks it
```

> with `Usage: U` for Unused. The repetition count for the `varies` remains the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with `Usage: U` for Unused. The repetition count for `varies` remains the
```

> same as for the original component in this case, but it does not display

Reviewer: ```suggestion
same as for the original component, but it does not display
```

in the DataSense view of the data you see in DataWeave.

When the schema simplification tool checks for data present in the
messages, it handles each occurrence of a composite in context. Different

> usages of the same composite may have different values present in your samples. When this happens, the composite is defined more than once with different identifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
uses of the same composite might have different values in your samples. When this happens, the composite is defined more than once, using different identifiers.
```

The simplified schema retains the segment positions from the original schema.
You can delete these position values from the simplified schema,

> as they're not used by the HL7 EDI Connector unless you use position

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because they're not used by HL7 EDI Connector unless you use position
```

prefixes on segment keys (one of the connector configuration options).

=== Example: HL7 Studio

> The following flow can be loaded from the XML that follows.

Reviewer: Reword to active voice.

Reviewer: Also, "the following...that follows" is a bit confusing: clarify.

http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/hl7
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/hl7/current/mule-hl7.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config"
  doc:name="HTTP Listener config" >
		<http:listener-connection host="localhost" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<hl7:config name="HL7_Extension_Config" doc:name="HL7 Extension Config" identKeys="true">
		<hl7:schemas >
			<hl7:schema value="/hl7/v2_5_1/ADT_A05.esl" />
			<hl7:schema value="/hl7/v2_5_1/ADT_A01.esl" />
		</hl7:schemas>
	</hl7:config>
	<flow name="hl7testFlow" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/hl7"/>
		<hl7:read doc:name="Read" config-ref="HL7_Extension_Config"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
{
	Delimiters: payload.Delimiters,
	Id: payload.Id
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<hl7:write doc:name="Write" config-ref="HL7_Extension_Config"/>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

> 

Reviewer: BREAK to commit

Reviewer: RESUME, commit 4

=== Set Your HL7 Identification in XML

> You can configure the Message Header (MSH) application and facility identification for you and your trading partner on the HL7 EDI connector configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the Message Header (MSH) application and facility identification for you and your trading partner in the HL7 EDI connector configuration.
```

> The values you set are used when writing HL7 messages to supply the namespace ID, universal ID, and universal ID type, and are verified in receive messages. If you don't want to restrict incoming messages you can leave these blank, and set the values for outgoing messages on the write operation or the actual outgoing message. Values set on the write operation override the connector configuration, and values set directly on the message override both the connector configuration and any values set on the write operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The values you set are used when writing HL7 messages to supply the namespace ID, universal ID, and universal ID type, and are verified in receive messages. If you don't want to restrict incoming messages, you can leave these blank and set the values for outgoing messages on the write operation or the actual outgoing message. Values set on the write operation override the connector configuration, and values set directly on the message override both the connector configuration and any values set on the write operation.
```
Are you sure that this is supposed to be "on" in all these texts? ON the configuration? ON the write operation? ON the outgoing message? It sounds odd to me....

Author: STET

> * Self identification parameters identify your side of the trading partner relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Self-identification parameters identify your side of the trading partner relationship.
```

+

> Self identification parameters:

Reviewer: ditto edits Line 220, 231

+
[source,text,linenums]
----
appNamespaceIdSelf="<value>"
appUniversalIdSelf="<value>"
appUniversalIdTypeSelf="<value>"
----
+
* Partner identification parameters identify your trading partner.
+

> Partner identification parameters:

Reviewer: ditto

+
[source,text,linenums]
----
appNamespaceIdPartner="<value>"
appUniversalIdPartner="<value>"
appUniversalIdTypePartner="<value>"
----

=== Reading and Validating HL7 ER7 Messages

> 

Reviewer: Anything to add about under what circumstances your audience wants or needs to read and validate?

Author: It's what users do with this connector. It doesn't make sense to explain it.

To read an HL7 message:

> . Search the palette for *HL7 EDI* and drag it into a flow.

Reviewer: Is the audience searching by scanning for a label (bold) or using a search tool (lowercase and mono)?

> . From the properties view, select the previously created connector configuration and select the `Read` operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the properties view, select the previously created connector configuration and then the `Read` operation.
```
Why is `Read` operation init. capped and in mono here but lowercased (write operation) earlier? Is the audience selecting syntax?

+
This operation reads any byte stream into the structure as described by your HL7 schemas.
+

> HL7 EDI validates the message structure when read:

Reviewer: What is being introduced here? The items that follow do not appear to be peer statements: checking, errors are logged, all messages are passed on, errors can throw.
Please clarify the intro and make parallel the listed items. Begin each item with a capital letter. Make them all fragments or all sentences that end with periods.

Author: STET

> * checking the syntax and content of the MSH and all component segments of the message.

Reviewer: As above.
Not a sentence.
Not init. capped.

> * errors are logged, accumulated, and reported in the generated ACK message provided in the generated data structure.

Reviewer: As above.
Not init. capped.
passive voice

> * all messages, whether error-free or with non-fatal errors, are passed on for processing as part of the output message Map.

Reviewer: As above.
Not init. capped.
"nonfatal errors"
Why is Map capitalized?
passive voice

> * Errors reading the input data can throw exceptions.

Reviewer: ditto above
The errors throw exceptions or cause them?

Author: Fixed.

Error data entered in the receive data map uses the HL7Error class, a read-only JavaBean with the following properties:

> [%header,cols="30a,70a"]

Reviewer: This should be a definition list rather than a table.

|===
|Property |Description
|`segment` |Zero-based index within the input of the segment causing the error.
|`fatal` |Flag for a fatal error, meaning the associated message was rejected as a result of the error.
|`errorType` |Enumeration for the different types of errors defined by the HL7 standards (ERR-3 values).
|`errorCode` |Error code, as defined by the HL7 standard for the indicated type of error.

> |`errorText` |Text description of the error.

Reviewer: Remove all periods: none is a complete sentence.
